README.md, before:

# Nucleo-H563ZI STM32 Template Project

This is a ready-to-use STM32CubeIDE project for the Nucleo-H563ZI board. Clone it, rename, and start coding!

## Quick Start

1. Open STM32CubeIDE - Wait at the dialog "Select a directory as workspace" (i.e. do NOT click on Launch)

2. Copy the path to your workspace (CTRL-C)

3. Clone the repo (in Terminal/Powershell):

~~~
# CTRL-V your path here
cd /path/to/your/workspace 

git clone https://github.com/norta8t/nucleo-h563zi-template.git your-project-name
~~~

4. Launch STM32CubeIDE.

5. Import the project: **File > Import > General > Existing Projects into Workspace** > Browse to the cloned folder > Select `your-project-name` > Finish.

6. Rename the project (to avoid conflicts):

   ● Right-click the project in Project Explorer > **Rename** > Enter your new name (e.g., `my-lab1`). <br><br>
     *Note: if the Ok button is grayed out, leave it as it is*

   ● Rename .ioc file (nucleo-h563zi-template.ioc) if necessary to match your project name, i.e. **your-project-name.ioc**
  
   ● STM32CubeIDE will update paths automatically. If prompted, regenerate code from the `.ioc` file (but this is optional).

7. Build: **Project > Build Project**.

8. Flash and run: Connect your Nucleo board > Right-click project > **Run As > STM32 Cortex-M C/C++ Application**.

## Tips

● If there is a yellow exclamation mark next to the projects IDE icon in the Project Explorer:

  1. Right click on Project > Resource > Change Text file encoding to Other: UTF-8

● To reconfigure pins/clocks: Double-click `nucleo-h563zi-template.ioc` > Make changes > Generate Code.

● If paths break after rename, clean/rebuild (Project > Clean).

● If there are errors during the build process, run the powershell script `.\fix-paths.ps1` in the project folder

● Requires STM32CubeH5 package (install via Help > Manage Embedded Software Packages).


LAP, 06.11.2025

Commit message:

Add installation note for Git in README
Added note about needing Git installed for cloning.

README.md, after:

# Nucleo-H563ZI STM32 Template Project

This is a ready-to-use STM32CubeIDE project for the Nucleo-H563ZI board. Clone it, rename, and start coding!

## Quick Start

1. Open STM32CubeIDE - Wait at the dialog "Select a directory as workspace" (i.e. do NOT click on Launch)

2. Copy the path to your workspace (CTRL-C)

3. Clone the repo (in Terminal/Powershell):

*Note: The next step needs git installed on your computer. Source: https://git-scm.com/install/*

~~~
# CTRL-V your path here
cd /path/to/your/workspace 

git clone https://github.com/norta8t/nucleo-h563zi-template.git your-project-name
~~~

4. Launch STM32CubeIDE.

5. Import the project: **File > Import > General > Existing Projects into Workspace** > Browse to the cloned folder > Select `your-project-name` > Finish.

6. Rename the project (to avoid conflicts):

   ● Right-click the project in Project Explorer > **Rename** > Enter your new name (e.g., `my-lab1`). <br><br>
     *Note: if the Ok button is grayed out, leave it as it is*

   ● Rename .ioc file (nucleo-h563zi-template.ioc) if necessary to match your project name, i.e. **your-project-name.ioc**
  
   ● STM32CubeIDE will update paths automatically. If prompted, regenerate code from the `.ioc` file (but this is optional).

7. Build: **Project > Build Project**.

8. Flash and run: Connect your Nucleo board > Right-click project > **Run As > STM32 Cortex-M C/C++ Application**.

## Tips

● If there is a yellow exclamation mark next to the projects IDE icon in the Project Explorer:

  1. Right click on Project > Resource > Change Text file encoding to Other: UTF-8

● To reconfigure pins/clocks: Double-click `nucleo-h563zi-template.ioc` > Make changes > Generate Code.

● If paths break after rename, clean/rebuild (Project > Clean).

● If there are errors during the build process, run the powershell script `.\fix-paths.ps1` in the project folder

● Requires STM32CubeH5 package (install via Help > Manage Embedded Software Packages).


LAP, 06.11.2025
